2025.09/source_connector_guides/databricks_connector_guide.md, before:

# Source Connector for Databricks

This guide describes how to configure Digna to connect to Databricks using either the native Python connector or the ODBC driver.

It refers to the screen **"Create a Database Connection"**.

![Create a database connection](images/data_source_config_input_mask.png)

---

## Native Python Driver

**Library:** `databricks-sql-connector`  
**Supported Authentication:** Personal Access Token (PAT) only

> ⚠️ For other authentication methods, please use the ODBC driver.

### Personal Access Token (PAT)

To authenticate using a personal access token, refer to the official Databricks documentation:  
👉 [How to obtain a PAT](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/dev-tools/auth/pat)

### Digna Configuration (Native Driver)

Provide the following information in the **"Create a Database Connection"** screen:

```
Technology:      Databricks
Host Address:    Databricks hostname, e.g. "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.databricks.com"
Host Port:       443
Database Name:   Schema that contains the source data (same as Schema Name)
Schema Name:     Schema that contains the source data
User Name:       HTTP Path provided by Databricks, e.g. "/sql/1.0/warehouses/xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
User Password:   Personal Access Token, e.g. "dapixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
Use ODBC:        Disabled (default)
```

---

## ODBC Driver

The ODBC driver supports a broader range of authentication and connectivity options. This section focuses on token-based authentication using the **Simba Spark ODBC Driver**.

### 1. Install the ODBC Driver

Install the **Simba Spark ODBC Driver** by following the vendor’s official installation guide.

### 2. Configure the ODBC Data Source

Follow these steps to configure a new ODBC data source using a Personal Access Token:

#### Step 1
![Step 1](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step1.png)

#### Step 2
![Step 2](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step2.png)

#### Step 3
![Step 3](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step3.png)

#### Step 4
![Step 4](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step4.png)

#### Step 5 – Test the connection

Click the **TEST** button. A successful connection should look like this:

![Step 5](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step5.png)

---

Now you can configure Digna to use the ODBC connection, either with a **DSN (Data Source Name)** or a **DSN-less** setup.

---

### A. DSN-Based Configuration

#### Digna Configuration

In the **"Create a Database Connection"** screen, provide the following:

```
Technology:      Databricks
Database Name:   Schema that contains the source data (same as Schema Name)
Schema Name:     Schema that contains the source data
Use ODBC:        Enabled
```

#### ODBC Properties

```
name: "DSN",    value: "dignadata_databricks"
```

> 🔹 The `DSN` must match the name defined in your ODBC driver configuration.

---

### B. DSN-less Configuration

#### Digna Configuration

In the **"Create a Database Connection"** screen, provide the following:

```
Technology:      Databricks
Database Name:   Schema that contains the source data (same as Schema Name)
Schema Name:     Schema that contains the source data
Use ODBC:        Enabled
```

#### ODBC Properties

```
name = "Driver",          value = "{Simba Spark ODBC Driver}"
name = "Host",            value = "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.databricks.com"
name = "Port",            value = "443"
name = "HTTPPath",        value = "/sql/1.0/warehouses/xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
name = "SSL",             value = "1"
name = "ThriftTransport", value = "2"
name = "AuthMech",        value = "3"
name = "UID",             value = "token"
name = "PWD",             value = "dapixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
```

Commit message:

added documentation for databricks when using unity catalog

2025.09/source_connector_guides/databricks_connector_guide.md, after:

# Source Connector for Databricks

This guide describes how to configure Digna to connect to Databricks using either the native Python connector or the ODBC driver.

It refers to the screen **"Create a Database Connection"**.

![Create a database connection](images/data_source_config_input_mask.png)

---

## Native Python Driver

**Library:** `databricks-sql-connector`  
**Supported Authentication:** Personal Access Token (PAT) only

> ⚠️ For other authentication methods, please use the ODBC driver.

### Personal Access Token (PAT)

To authenticate using a personal access token, refer to the official Databricks documentation:  
👉 [How to obtain a PAT](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/dev-tools/auth/pat)

### Digna Configuration (Native Driver)

Provide the following information in the **"Create a Database Connection"** screen:

```
Technology:      Databricks
Host Address:    Databricks hostname, e.g. "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.databricks.com"
Host Port:       443
Database Name:   Name of the catalog to use. Leave this empty if Unity Catalog is not used, or set it to "spark_catalog" 
Schema Name:     Schema that contains the source data
User Name:       HTTP Path provided by Databricks, e.g. "/sql/1.0/warehouses/xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
User Password:   Personal Access Token, e.g. "dapixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
Use ODBC:        Disabled (default)
```

---

## ODBC Driver

The ODBC driver supports a broader range of authentication and connectivity options. This section focuses on token-based authentication using the **Simba Spark ODBC Driver**.

### 1. Install the ODBC Driver

Install the **Simba Spark ODBC Driver** by following the vendor’s official installation guide.

### 2. Configure the ODBC Data Source

Follow these steps to configure a new ODBC data source using a Personal Access Token:

#### Step 1
![Step 1](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step1.png)

#### Step 2
![Step 2](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step2.png)

#### Step 3
![Step 3](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step3.png)

#### Step 4
![Step 4](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step4.png)

#### Step 5 – Test the connection

Click the **TEST** button. A successful connection should look like this:

![Step 5](images/databricks/create_odbc_data_source_step5.png)

---

Now you can configure Digna to use the ODBC connection, either with a **DSN (Data Source Name)** or a **DSN-less** setup.

---

### A. DSN-Based Configuration

#### Digna Configuration

In the **"Create a Database Connection"** screen, provide the following:

```
Technology:      Databricks
Database Name:   Name of the catalog to use. Leave this empty if Unity Catalog is not used, or set it to "spark_catalog"
Schema Name:     Schema that contains the source data
Use ODBC:        Enabled
```

#### ODBC Properties

```
name: "DSN",    value: "dignadata_databricks"
```

> 🔹 The `DSN` must match the name defined in your ODBC driver configuration.

---

### B. DSN-less Configuration

#### Digna Configuration

In the **"Create a Database Connection"** screen, provide the following:

```
Technology:      Databricks
Database Name:   Name of the catalog to use. Leave this empty if Unity Catalog is not used, or set it to "spark_catalog"
Schema Name:     Schema that contains the source data
Use ODBC:        Enabled
```

#### ODBC Properties

```
name = "Driver",          value = "{Simba Spark ODBC Driver}"
name = "Host",            value = "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.databricks.com"
name = "Port",            value = "443"
name = "HTTPPath",        value = "/sql/1.0/warehouses/xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
name = "SSL",             value = "1"
name = "ThriftTransport", value = "2"
name = "AuthMech",        value = "3"
name = "UID",             value = "token"
name = "PWD",             value = "dapixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
```
